```
      â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•—   â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—   â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•—  â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•— â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•— â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•— 
      â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•— â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â•šâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•— â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â•â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—
      â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘ â•šâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â• â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘
      â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â•šâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â•šâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•  â•šâ•â•â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•—â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘
      â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘ â•šâ•â• â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘   â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘   â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘  â–ˆâ–ˆâ•‘â–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ–ˆâ•”â•
      â•šâ•â•     â•šâ•â•   â•šâ•â•   â•šâ•â•â•â•â•â•â•â•šâ•â•â•šâ•â•â•â•â•â• â•šâ•â•  â•šâ•â•â•šâ•â•  â•šâ•â•â•šâ•â•â•â•â•â• 
                                                               
---------------------+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++----------------------
                       Ramblings on various topics
---------------------+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++----------------------
```

# Welcome to Mysidard.com

Hello weary Gemini traveller and welcome to my capsule on the Geminispace. I have several presences on the regular web, but for the sake of keeping them separated, I am not going to mention these here. Instead, I have created this space as a personal hub for my various different hobbies and interests and hope you will find the information I will be sharing hereon helpful or interesting in some form. 


## About
=> about/aboutme.gmi    ðŸ¦ About Me
If you want to find out more about me, this page will hopefully satisfy your curiosity; beware, however, that my interests are rather varied and often change depending on my mood and the page might, therefore, be appended from time to time to reflect my current interests.

## Gemlog
=> gemlog/public/index.gmi ðŸ’ŽMy Gemlog
This contains my gemlog, the Gemini version of a blog. On here, I will be posting about various topics that interest me, so be sure to check out the About Me page to find out what that might be.

## Links
=> https://mysidard.com ðŸ•¸HTTPS Mirror 
This will lead you to the HTTPS version of my capsule. 

=> gemlog/public/atom.xml âš›Atom Feed
This is the Atom feed for my Gemlog.
